# RUST BOOTCAMP LESSON 01

characteristics

- statically type
- multi paradigm: Take all the good things of all other programing languages
- Low level: If you want you are given access to memory
- Ownership model: Gives some guarantees about memory safety

---
Python vs RUST

Rust is faster, uses less memory, has static typing, smaller ecosystem

Java vs Rust
Rust has no garbage collectors and has zero cost abstraction. Every abstraction 
do not introduce any cost in the runtime performances. 
---

---
## Rust features
### Memory safety
There are no dangling pointers (No use after free), as well as no null pointers
Concurrency is safe, no data races

### Ownership and Borrowing
They allow to have these guarantees. Rust manages memory without the garbage collector. 
- Ownership
    - Every value has an Owner
    - Only one owner at the time
    - If the owner is out of scope, then the value will be dropped (Memory free)
- Borrowing
    - Instead of parameters passed in a function, there is the concept of borrowing
    - Referencese must always be valid

### Unsafe blocks
In case you want to do some illegal stuff in the memory, you can still do some shit inside of unsafe blocks 
### Concurrency
With the ownership model you resolve the concurrency problem
---

## Error handling

errors are common, and they are managed with 
```rust

enum Result{
    Ok()
    Err()
} ...

enum Option{

} ...

```
With these, rust forces you to handle these errors

```rust

max = ....
match max {
    ...
}
Since it returns an option we have to unwrap and manage the errors

```

## Compiler
It Tries to help you. 
Important that the variables by default are immutable, 

---
## Zero cost abstraction
Using generics, structs and iterators there will be no hidden cost. 
---

# Basic syntax in rust

usually there are structs or enums with methods, that covers the `impl`. you cannto really have inheritance. intsead you can use traits, which they are kind of interfaces.

## string vs str

str is stored on the stack and it is immutable, and String is stored on the heap
you cannot index inside of the string, because the encoding has no constant len. so you would use iterators

## functions
`

`

## pattern matching
it's the rust way of doing switch case. There are also checks if each case is handeled. 

## Structs 
Like in golang
but there is also an `impl` keyword.

## Generics and traits
support for generics. 
You can also put traits, which gives some conditions(Interfaces)
---
# Collections
## Vector
An array that you can resize
it is stored in a contiguous piece of memory (Heap) and it is a strcture in memor (pointer, capacity and len)
`vec![...]`
`HashMap`
and some more
---

# How to structure a project

- Item: Piece of sw
- Module: Similar items
- Crate (lib or bin): modules that bundle the modules. There has to be at least one. 
- Package: Bundle of crates

## Cargo .toml
configuratin file for cargo, it specifies dependecies, library and specific versions. You can also build with profiles, which allows to build in different scenarios ( debug, production). You can also build conditionally

If you want to generate you own modules you have to specify the mod folder


